Hypershift docs (#1994)
timescale/docs: cloud/migrate-to-cloud/hypershift.md

Timescale database. You can create your own file, or use the example file as a
starting point. You need these details to complete your configuration file:

*   The schema you want to use
*   The name of the database you are migrating
*   The name of the `time` column in your database
*   The chunk time interval to use
*   The compression policy you want to use

Use this format:

```yml
- schema: public
  name: <DATABASE_NAME>
  time_column_name: <TIME_COLUMN_NAME>
  chunk_time_interval: "12h"
  compress:
    after: "48h"
    segmentby:
      - <COLUMN_NAME>
    orderby:
      - time desc
```

<procedure>

### Running hypershift

1.  Open the `hypershift.yml` configuration file, and adjust parameters
    accordingly. For example:

    ```yml
    - schema: public
      name: stocks_real_time
      time_column_name: time
      chunk_time_interval: "12h"
      compress:
        after: "48h"
        segmentby:
          - symbol
        orderby:
          - time desc
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, run the hypershift container. Include the source and
    destination database connection strings, and the path to your `hypershift.yml`
    configuration file:

    ```bash

>     docker run -v$(pwd)/hypershift.yml -ti timescale/hypershift:latest clone \

Reviewer: We don't have a `latest` tag for the docker image. The current release is `0.2`.

```suggestion
    docker run -v$(pwd)/hypershift.yml -ti timescale/hypershift:0.2 clone \
```

---
title: Migrate with Hypershift
excerpt: Migrate an existing PostgreSQL database to Timescale Cloud in a single step
product: cloud
keywords: [data migration, Hypershift]
tags: [ingest, Hypershift, postgresql]
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# Migrate with Hypershift

You can use Hypershift&nbsp;0.2&nbsp;(beta) to migrate existing PostgreSQL
databases in one step, and enable compression and hypertable creation on the
fly.

Hypershift can migrate your data in Timescale Cloud from these sources:

*   Standard PostgreSQL databases
*   Amazon RDS databases
*   Other TimescaleDB databases, including Managed Service for Timescale

Because compression is enabled during the migration, you do not need to have the
maximum amount of storage available in the target database before you start
migration.

<Experimental />

In preliminary testing, Hypershift migrated 60&nbsp;GB of data in 9 to 12 minutes,
and 1&nbsp;TB of data in under 4 hours. You can continue reading from your
source database during this time, though performance could be slower. If you
write to tables in your source database during the migration, the new writes

> might not be transferred to Timescale Cloud. To avoid this problem, fork your

Author: ```suggestion
are not transferred to Timescale Cloud. To avoid this problem, fork your
```

database and migrate your data from the fork. To avoid this problem, see the
section on [migrating an active database]
(<http://docs.timescale.com/cloud/latest/migrate-to-cloud/#migrate-an-active-database>).

<highlight type="important">

> If you have a very large database, and Hypershift is going to have to run for a

Reviewer: Another important point that is associated with large/busy databases is that Hypershift will hold a transaction open for the entire duration of the migration. This will prevent autovacuum from running, which could cause issues ranging from poor performance to transaction wraparound. It might be worthwhile to mention that here.

Author: Added it in. Do we have any specific troubleshooting info for this yet?

Reviewer: It's kind of an advanced problem, so I'm not sure that we have materials for it. I suspect that if people would potentially run into these kinds of issues, they are aware of it, so just mentioning it is enough.

very long time to migrate it, for example, a day or more, ensure that you have a
very stable network connection. Hypershift is not able to recover if the network
connection is interrupted.
</highlight>

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

*   Signed up for your [free Timescale Cloud account][cloud-install].
*   Installed [Docker][docker-install].

<highlight type="cloud" header="Run all tutorials free" button="Try for free">
Your Timescale Cloud trial is completely free for you to use for the first
thirty days. This gives you enough time to complete all the tutorials and run
a few test projects of your own.
</highlight>

## Download the Hypershift container

<Tabs label="Download Hypershift">

<Tab title="MacOS">

<procedure>

### Downloading the Hypershift container on MacOS

1.  Open the Docker app on your local machine to start the service.

1.  At the command prompt, pull the latest Hypershift container from Dockerhub:

    ```bash

>     docker pull timescale/hypershift

Reviewer: The user must specify a version:
```suggestion
    docker pull timescale/hypershift:0.2
```

    ```

</procedure>

</Tab>

<Tab title="Linux">

<procedure>

### Downloading the Hypershift container on Linux

1.  Start the Docker service:

    ```bash
    sudo service docker start
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, pull the latest Hypershift container from Dockerhub:

    ```bash

>     docker pull timescale/hypershift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker pull timescale/hypershift:0.2
```

Author: Doesn't this mean that we would need to update the tag with each release? I thought if we left it as just `hypershift` then it will automatically pull the latest one?

Reviewer: If the docker image has a `latest` tag, then that is the default behaviour, yes. Our image (currently) doesn't have a `latest` tag. I generally don't like proposing that people use the `latest` tag, because it invariably ends up in a script, which breaks when a new version is released. I understand the annoyance/difficulty here of keeping docs and code in sync though, so now I'm even more on the fence about whether we should have a `latest` tag or not..

Author: Happy to put the tag in for now. If you add the `latest` tag, though, let me know 🚀

    ```

</procedure>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Run Hypershift

In preparation for running Hypershift, you need to determine which tables need
to be converted to hypertables, and which tables need to be compressed during
the migration. Hypertables must have a unique column labelled `time`.

Hypershift uses a YAML configuration file to determine how to set up your new
Timescale database. You can create your own file, or use the example file as a
starting point. You need these details to complete your configuration file:

> *   The schema you want to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   The schema which contains the table
```

> *   The name of the database you are migrating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   The name of the table to be converted to a hypertable
```

> *   The name of the `time` column in your database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   The name of the `time` column of that table
```

> *   The chunk time interval to use

Reviewer: It might be helpful to link to our docs for how to determine the chunk time interval? Or do we assume that the user knows this at this point?

Author: We could provide a link to the appropriate How To.

*   The compression policy you want to use

Use this format:

```yml
- schema: public

>   name: <DATABASE_NAME>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: <TABLE_NAME>
```

  time_column_name: <TIME_COLUMN_NAME>
  chunk_time_interval: "12h"
  compress:
    after: "48h"
    segmentby:
      - <COLUMN_NAME>
    orderby:
      - time desc
```

<procedure>

### Running Hypershift

1.  Open the `hypershift.yml` configuration file, and adjust parameters
    accordingly. For example:

    ```yml
    - schema: public
      name: stocks_real_time
      time_column_name: time
      chunk_time_interval: "12h"
      compress:
        after: "48h"
        segmentby:
          - symbol
        orderby:
          - time desc
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, run the Hypershift container. Include the source and
    destination database connection strings, and the path to your `hypershift.yml`
    configuration file:

    ```bash
    docker run -v$(pwd)/hypershift.yml -ti timescale/hypershift:0.2 clone \
    -s "host=<SOURCE_DB_HOSTNAME> user=postgres port=5431 password=<DB_PASSWORD>" \
    -t "host=<TARGET_DB_HOSTNAME> user=postgres port=5432 password=<DB_PASSWORD>" \
    --hypertable /hypershift.yml
    ```

1.  When the migration has finished, a summary of the migration is shown, and
    the Docker container exits.

> </procedure>

Reviewer: Do we perhaps want to point people to how they can get help if they have trouble with hypershift? I believe that there will be a channel created in Slack called `#migrations` which will be the avenue by which people should ask for assistance or share their journey.

Author: I don't like being too prescriptive on this stuff, because it's likely to change over time. In general, we don't specify where to get help unless it's something specifically that can't be self-serviced (like "Contact support to recover your account" type of thing). I think if you really want to put something in like that we could put in a link to the community page, or to the support form, though.

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion. My concern is centered

Author: I think we can assume that most users would go looking for support, or go through the community Slack/forum. Should be good to go without pointing it out 👍

product: cloud
keywords: [data migration, Hypershift]
tags: [ingest, Hypershift, postgresql]
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# Migrate with Hypershift

You can use Hypershift&nbsp;0.2&nbsp;(beta) to migrate existing PostgreSQL
databases in one step, and enable compression and hypertable creation on the
fly.

<Experimental />

Hypershift can migrate your data in Timescale Cloud from these sources:

*   Standard PostgreSQL databases
*   Amazon RDS databases
*   Other TimescaleDB databases, including Managed Service for Timescale

Because compression is enabled during the migration, you do not need to have the
maximum amount of storage available in the target database before you start
migration.

In preliminary testing, Hypershift migrated 60&nbsp;GB of data in 9 to 12 minutes,
and 1&nbsp;TB of data in under 4 hours. You can continue reading from your
source database during this time, though performance could be slower. If you
write to tables in your source database during the migration, the new writes
are not transferred to Timescale Cloud. To avoid this problem, fork your

> database and migrate your data from the fork. To avoid this problem, see the
> section on [migrating an active database]
> (<http://docs.timescale.com/cloud/latest/migrate-to-cloud/#migrate-an-active-database>).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
database and migrate your data from the fork. See the
section on [migrating an active database](http://docs.timescale.com/cloud/latest/migrate-to-cloud/#migrate-an-active-database) to learn more.
```

that you want to convert to hypertables:

*   The schema which contains the table
*   The name of the table
*   The name of the `time` column of that table
*   The chunk time interval to use
*   The compression policy you want to use

If you are not sure what chunk time interval to use, see the
[time partitioning section][chunk-time].

Use this format:

```yml
- schema: public
  name: <TABLE_NAME>
  time_column_name: <TIME_COLUMN_NAME>
  chunk_time_interval: "12h"
  compress:
    after: "48h"
    segmentby:
      - <COLUMN_NAME>
    orderby:
      - time desc
```

<procedure>

### Running Hypershift

1.  Open the `hypershift.yml` configuration file, and adjust parameters
    accordingly. For example:

    ```yml
    - schema: public
      name: stocks_real_time
      time_column_name: time
      chunk_time_interval: "12h"
      compress:
        after: "48h"
        segmentby:
          - symbol
        orderby:
          - time desc
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, run the Hypershift container. Include the source and
    destination database connection strings, and the path to your `hypershift.yml`
    configuration file:

    ```bash

>     docker run -v$(pwd)/hypershift.yml -ti timescale/hypershift:0.2 clone \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    docker run -v $(pwd)/hypershift.yml -ti timescale/hypershift:0.2 clone \
```

---
title: Migrate with hypershift
excerpt: Migrate an existing PostgreSQL database to Timescale Cloud in a single step
product: cloud
keywords: [data migration, hypershift]
tags: [ingest, hypershift, postgresql]
---

# Migrate with hypershift

> Migrate smaller PostgreSQL databases by dumping and restoring the entire

Reviewer 3: Why the focus on smaller databases? Small ones work just fine with pg_dump and pg_restore. My testing was routinely 1TB, and I don't think there's any reason it wouldn't handle 10+T. The larger you go the more the problem is with our environment and volume size limits. Testing with a multi-node target might even allow significantly larger.

Author: Excellent! I'll change that 👍
